PUTIN!
>> Woodruff: IN UKRAINE, PRO-
RUSSIAN PROTESTERS SEIZED
CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS
IN THE EAST.
DEMANDING A VOTE TO FOLLOW
CRIMEA'S LEAD AND SECEDE.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, GWEN IFILL IS
AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD, THE RESULTS IN
>> Woodruff: HOPES OF FINDING
THAT MISSING MALAYSIAN AIRLINER
WERE CAUTIOUSLY ON THE RISE
TODAY.
THAT FOLLOWED A FLURRY OF
REPORTS THAT SEARCHERS MAY HAVE
PICKED UP SIGNALS FROM THE
PLANE'S BLACK BOXES.
LUCY WATSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM
BEIJING, WHERE THE SEARCH IS
BEING CLOSELY WATCHED BECAUSE
MOST OF THOSE ON BOARD WERE
CHINESE.
>> Reporter: AN AUSTRALIAN CREW
LOWER THE KEY AMERICAN DEVICE
THAT COULD END UNCERTAINTY
SURROUNDING FLIGHT 370.
IT'S BEEN TRAWLING THE OCEAN FOR
UNDERWATER SOUNDS LIKE THOSE
EMITTED FROM FLIGHT DATA
RECORDERS AND ON BOARD THEY MY
HAVE DETECTED BUT NOT LOCATED
THEM.
>> CLEARLY THIS IS A MOST
PROMISING LEAD.
AND PROBABLY IN THE SEARCH SO
FAR, ITS THE, IT'S PROBABLY THE
BEST INFORMATION THAT WE'VE HAD.
WE HAVEN'T FOUND THE AIRCRAFT
YET, WE NEED FURTHER
CONFIRMATION.
>> Reporter: THE LATEST SIGNALS,
OR PINGS ,WERE HEARD HERE, BY AN
AUSTRALIAN VESSEL.
370 MILES FROM WHERE A CHINESE
SHIP PICKED UP BRIEF SOUNDS ON
SATURDAY.
THE OCEAN SHIELD HAS BEEN
CIRCLING THE AREA AND TOWING A
PINGER LOCATOR.
AND DETECTIONS WERE HEARD ON TWO
SEPARATE OCCASIONS.
THE FIRST TIME FOR TWO HOURS AND
20 MINUTES AND LATER ANOTHER,
RECEIVED FOR AROUND 13 MINUTES.
IF THE SHIP PICKS UP MORE PINGS,
AN UNDERWATER DRONE WILL THEN BE
SENT TO INVESTIGATE THE SEA BED,
SOME THREE MILES DOWN.
AND DEEP BENEATH THAT SURFACE,
IT IS HOSTILE, WITH MOUNTAINOUS
TERRAIN, SO ANY RECOVERY WILL BE
TESTING.
BUT LIKE EVERY OTHER LEAD OVER
THE LAST MONTH, IT'S MET WITH
EXPECTANT ATTENTION.
>> DESPITE ALL THIS, WE ARE
CAUTIOUSLY HOPEFUL THAT THERE
WILL BE A POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT
IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS IF NOT
HOURS.
>> WE'D LIKE TO TELL THE
FAMILIES WE'VE FOUND THE
LOCATION, BUT UNTIL WE CAN RE-
CONFIRM, YOU KNOW, WE SHOULD NOT
BE TOO OPTIMISTIC.
WE SHOULD BE VERY MEASURED.
BECAUSE THE WORST THING WE WANT
TO DO IS PUT THE FAMILIES
THROUGH THE EMOTIONAL TURMOIL OF
POSSIBLE BUT MAYBE FALSE
DETECTIONS.
>> Reporter: SO THEY ARE
TREADING CAREFULLY.
BUT WHETHER ITS THROUGH EFFORT,
SKILL, OR SHEER GOOD FORTUNE,
THEY COULD SOON UNRAVEL THIS
MYSTERY.
>> Woodruff: THE DEATH TOLL IN
THE WASHINGTON STATE MUDSLIDE
ROSE AGAIN TODAY, TO 33.
THE SNOHOMISH COUNTY MEDICAL
EXAMINER'S OFFICE CONFIRMED
THREE MORE VICTIMS, INCLUDING A
30-YEAR-OLD NAVAL OFFICER.
THE NUMBER OF MISSING DROPPED TO
TEN.
IN RWANDA, WAILS OF GRIEF
PUNCTUATED A CEREMONY MARKING
THE GENOCIDE THAT RAVAGED THE
AFRICAN NATION 20 YEARS AGO.
IT'S ESTIMATED MORE THAN A
MILLION PEOPLE DIED AS ETHNIC
HUTUS SLAUGHTERED MINORITY
TUTSIS.
SOME IN THE CROWD TODAY WERE SO
OVERCOME, THEY HAD TO BE CARRIED
OUT.
RWANDAN PRESIDENT PAUL KAGAME
TOLD THE CROWD THAT COLONIAL
RULE SET THE STAGE FOR THE
VIOLENCE.
>> THE PEOPLE WHO PLANNED AND
CARRIED OUT THE GENOCIDE WERE
RWANDANS BUT THE HISTORY AND
ROOT CAUSES GO BEYOND THIS
BEAUTIFUL COUNTRY.
THIS IS WHY RWANDANS CONTINUE TO
SEEK THE MOST COMPLETE
EXPLANATION POSSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: KAGAME HAS ACCUSED
FRANCE OF DIRECTLY TAKING PART
IN THE KILLING.
PARIS WAS ALLIED WITH THE
RWANDAN GOVERNMENT THAT RULED
BEFORE THE GENOCIDE, BUT IT
DENIES TRAINING HUTU MILITIAS TO
CARRY OUT THE ATTACKS.GUN  IND.
74%.
IN ALL, 814 MILLION INDIANS ARE
F PAIAME.
THE OPPOSITION HINDU NATIONALIST
PARTY IS EXPECTED TO WIN BIG ON
A PROMISE TO REJUVENATE THE
ECONOMY, BUT IT MAY STILL FALL
SHORT OF A MAJORITY.
THE DOUBLE-AMPUTEE OLYMPIAN
OSCAR PISTORIUS TOOK THE STAND
IN HIS MURDER TRIAL IN SOUTH
AFRICA TODAY.
HE'S ACCUSED OF MURDERING HIS
GIRLFRIEND, REEVA STEENKAMP, BUT
HE SAYS HE THOUGHT SHE WAS AN
INTRUDER.
BEFORE TAKING THE STAND,
PISTORIUS WEPT AND COVERED HIS
EARS AS HE LISTENED TO FORENSIC
EVIDENCE.
THEN, OUT OF VIEW OF THE
CAMERAS, HE APOLOGIZED TO THE
STEENKAMP FAMILY.
>> I WAKE UP EVERY MORNING AND
YOU'RE THE FIRST PEOPLE I THINK
OF, THE FIRST PEOPLE I PRAY FOR.
I CAN'T IMAGINE THE PAIN AND THE
SORROW AND THE EMPTINESS THAT I
HAVE CAUSED YOU AND YOUR FAMILY.
I WAS SIMPLY TRYING TO PROTECT
REEVA.
I CAN PROMISE YOU THAT WHEN SHE
WENT TO BED THAT NIGHT, SHE FELT
LOVED.
>> Woodruff: LATER, THE JUDGE
ADJOURNED THE PROCEEDINGS,
SAYING PISTORIUS LOOKED
EXHAUSTED.
HE RETURNS TO THE STAND
TOMORROW.
THE U.S. SENATE MOVED THIS
EVENING TO APPROVE A BILL THAT
RESTORES JOBLESS BENEFITS FOR
THE LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED.
IT WOULD COST $9.6 BILLION
DOLLARS AND BE PAID FOR BY
OFFSETTING SPENDING CUTS
ELSEWHERE.
THE BILL IS GIVEN LITTLE CHANCE
OF PASSING THE HOUSE, BUT
SUPPORTERS SAID THEY'RE WILLING
TO CONSIDER CHANGES.
AS MANY AS 2.7 MILLION PEOPLE
HAVE LOST JOBLESS BENEFITS SINCE
DECEMBER.
FORD IS THE LATEST AUTO-MAKER TO
ANNOUNCE A MAJOR RECALL
CAMPAIGN.
THE COMPANY SAID TODAY IT'S
CALLING BACK NEARLY 435,000
VEHICLES.
MOST ARE FORD ESCAPES FROM THE
MODEL YEARS 2001 THROUGH 2004.
THEY COULD DEVELOP RUST THAT
INTERFERES WITH THE STEERING.
WALL STREET HAD ANOTHER LOSING
DAY, AS FINANCIAL FIRMS AND TECH
STOCKS SLUMPED.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
FELL NEARLY 167 POINTS TO CLOSE
BELOW 16,246.
THE NASDAQ WAS DOWN ALMOST 48
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,079.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 GAVE UP 20
TO FINISH AT 1,845.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
PRO-RUSSIAN PROTESTERS CALL FOR
>> Woodruff: UKRAINE IS BACK IN
THE SPOTLIGHT AGAIN AS PRO-
RUSSIAN ACTIVISTS HAVE TAKEN
OVER GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS
IN AT LEAST THREE CITIES IN THE
COUNTRY'S EAST.
THE PRIME MINISTER CLAIMS MOSCOW
IS BEHIND THIS LATEST UNREST.
>> Woodruff: THEY CHANTED THE
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT'S NAME IN THE
UKRAINIAN CITY OF DONETSK TODAY,
WHERE PROTESTERS PROCLAIMED
INDEPENDENCE, AND CALLED FOR A
REFERENDUM TO JOIN RUSSIA.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE
ADDRESSING YOU, VLADIMIR PUTIN,
AS OUR LAST HOPE FOR OUR FUTURE
AND FOR THE FUTURE OF OUR
CHILDREN.
ONLY IN RUSSIA DO WE SEE THE
LAST REMAINING DEFENDER OF OUR
CULTURE OF THE RUSSIAN WORLD.
WITHOUT THE SUPPORT OF RUSSIA,
WE WILL FIND IT DIFFICULT ALONE.
>> Woodruff: THE PROTESTERS
STORMGOVERNMENT
OFFICES IN DONETSK YESTERDAY,
PUSHING THEIR WAY THROUGH A
POLICE CORDON AND INTO THE
BUILDING, AND CUTTING DOWN THE
UKRAINIAN FLAG.
IN THE HOURS THAT FOLLOWED,
CROWDS ALSO STORMED UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS IN THE
CITIES OF KHARKIV AND LUHANSK.
LATER TODAY, THE RUSSIAN NEWS
AGENCY INTERFAX REPORTED THE
PROTESTERS IN KHARKIV ALSO
DECLARED AN INDEPENDENT
REPUBLIC.
THE ACTION TOOK PLACE IN MAINLY
RUSSIAN-SPEAKING PARTS OF
EASTERN UKRAINE-- WHERE SUPPORT
FOR OUSTED, PRO-RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VIKTOR YANUKOVICH HAD
BEEN STRONGEST.
IT RECALLED EVENTS IN CRIMEA,
SEVERAL WEEKS AGO, WHEN RUSSIAN-
SPEAKING MEN OCCUPIED MILITARY
AND GOVERNMENT SITES.
N HELD A QUICK
REFERENDUM AND WAS PROMPTLY
ANNEXED BY MOSCOW.
NOW, THERE ARE SIGNS THAT MORE
OF THE COUNTRY MAY BE ABOUT TO
SLIP AWAY.
THIS HAS PROMPTED UKRAINIAN
PRIME MINISTER ARSENY YATSENIUK
TO WARN THIS NEW TROUBLE IS
NOTHING LESS THAN A RUSSIAN
ATTEMPT AT THE DESTRUCTION OF
UKRAINE.
>> ( translated ): IT IS
ABSOLUTELY CLEAR THAT AN ANTI-
UKRAINIAN, ANTI-DONETSK, ANTI-
LUHANSK AND ANTI-KHARKIV PLAN IS
BEING REALIZED.
THAT IS A PLAN TO DESTABILIZE
THE SITUATION, A PLAN FOR
FOREIGN TROOPS TO CROSS THE
BORDERS AND SEIZE THE TERRITORY
OF THE COUNTRY WHICH WE WILL NOT
ALLOW TO HAPPEN.
I AM SURE THAT CITIZENS OF
LUHANSK, DONETSK AND KHARKIV
WANT TO LIVE IN A UNITED
COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: INDEED, YATSENYUK
SAID, AS MANY AS 10,000 RUSSIAN
FORCES ARE MASSED JUST ACROSS
THE BORDER, NO MORE THAN 20
MILES AWAY.
IN WASHINGTON, THE WHITE HOUSE
SAID ANY RUSSIAN MOVES OVERTLY
OR COVERTLY INTO EASTERN UKRAINE
WOULD BE A VERY SERIOUS
ESCALATION AND LIKELY TRIGGER
NEW SANCTIONS.
THE KREMLIN REJECTED ALLEGATIONS
THAT IT'S FOMENTING THE UNREST
IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
BUT SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY SPOKE WITH RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER SERGEI LAVROV IN A
PHONE CALL.
SPOKESMAN JEN PSAKI:
>> HE CALLED ON RUSSIA TO
PUBLICLY DISAVOW THE ACTIVITIES
OF SEPARATISTS, SABOTEURS AND
PROVOCATEURS, CALLING FOR DE-
ESCALATION AND DIALOGUE, AND
CALLED ON ALL PARTIES TO REFRAIN
FROM AGITATION IN UKRAINE.
HE MADE CLEAR THAT ANY FURTHER
RUSSIAN EFFORT TO DESTABILIZE
UKRAINE WILL INCUR FURTHER COSTS
FOR RUSSIA.
>> Woodruff: THE DEPARTMENT ALSO
ANNOUNCED KERRY PLANS TO MEET
WITH TOP DIPLOMATS FROM RUSSIA,
UKRAINE AND THE EUROPEAN UNION
IN THE NEXT TEN DAYS.
>> Woodruff: DAVID HERSZENHORN
IS COVERING THIS STORY FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES FROM MOSCOW.
I SPOKE TO HIM A SHORT TIME AGO.
DAVID HERTZ ENHORN, THANK
YOU FOR TALKING-- HERSZENHORN,
THANK YOU FOR TALK WITH US
WHAT IS THE LATEST YOU ARE
HEARING FROM EASTERN
UKRAINE.
>> WE KNOW NOW THE
GOVERNMENT THERE KIEV FACES
A CRITICAL CHOICE TO MAKE,
WHETHER TO TRY TO MOVE IN ON
THESE PROTESTORS WHO HAVE
OCCUPIED GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS THROUGHOUT EASTERN
UKRAINE OR TAKE MORE OF A
WAIT-AND-SEE POSITION AND
NOT RISK PROVOKING THE
RUSSIAN AUTHORITIES.
>> Woodruff: HOW MUCH IS
KNOWN ABOUT WHO THESE PEOPLE
ARE WHO HAVE TAKEN OVER THE
BUILDINGS AND WHO ARE
PARTICIPATING IN THESE
PROTESTS?
>> WELL, NOT A LOT IS KNOWN.
THERE IS A LOT OF
CONTROVERSY AN DISCUSSION.
WE KNOW IN PAST PROTEST LIKE
THIS THERE'S BEEN EVIDENCE
OF DEMONSTRATORS BEING BUSED
IN ACROSS THE RUSSIAN
BORDER.
THERE IS SOME INDICATION
THAT WE ARE SEEING A REPEAT
OF THAT WHERE SOME OF THESE
FOLKS ARE FROM OUT OF TOWN.
THEY'RE NOT NECESSARILY
LOCALS.
ON THE OTHER HAND WE DO KNOW
THERE IS SOME GENUINE PRO
RUSSIAN SENTIMENT THROUGHOUT
EASTERN UKRAINE SO WE
IMAGINE IT'S A COMBINATION
OF THOSE TWO ELEMENTS.
>> AND HOW IS IT KNOWN THAT
SOME ARE NOT UKRAINIAN?
I MEAN ARE PEOPLE ON THE
GROUND THERE BEEN TALKING TO
THEM?
>> WELL THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
REPORTS TODAY, AGAIN,
UNCONFIRMED BY US AT THE
"NEW YORK TIMES", BUT
THERE WERE SOME
DEMONSTRATORS WHO WRONGLY
STORMED AN OPERAHOUSE
THINKING IT WAS THE CITY
HALL THAT WOULD BE A CLEAR
SIGN THAT THE FOLKS AREN'T
LOCAL GOING INTO THE OPERA
AND DEMANDING TO SPEAK TO
THE MAYOR THERE.
WE HAVE SEEN IN THE PAST
EVIDENCE OF BUSES BRINGING
IN PEOPLE, CASES WHERE THE
CROWDS WERE QUITE SMALLER
FOR SEVERAL DAYS AND ALL OF
A SUDDEN MAGICALLY BECOME
LARGE ARE.
THIS REALLY BEGUN UNFOLDING
ON SUNDAY EVENING.
S THIS'S NOT UNCOMMON WHERE
THE WEEKENDS BRING OUT A
LITTLE BIT OF A, LAER CROWD,
GIVE MORE OF AN OPPORTUNITY
TO BRING PEOPLE OUT TO THE
STREETS.
AND SO WHAT HE WITH SAW WERE
WHAT APPEARED TO BE
COORDINATED EFFORTS IN AT
LEAST 3 CITIES, DONE ETQs
WHERE PEOPLE WERE STORMING
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, MAKING
CLEAR THAT IN MANY CASES
THEY WOULD LIKE TO FOLLOW IN
THE FOOTSTEPS OF CRIMEA, KRE
CREED THERE UKRAINE AND
JOIN-- CECEDE FROM UKRAINE
AND JOIN RUSSIA.
>> I SAW ONE REPORT WHERE
PEOPLE WERE BEING ALLEGEDLY
OFFERED MONEY TO JOIN PROT
TEST.
>> THERE ARE ALWAYS RUMORS
AND REPORTS OF THESE THINGS
THROUGHOUT THE FORMER SOVIET
SPACE.
SOMETIMES IT IS CONSPIRACY
THEORY, ESTIMATES IT IS
LEGITIMATE IT IS HARD TO
KNOW.
WHAT WE SUSPECT IS THIS IS A
COMBINATION OF FOLKS WHO
HAVE A GENUINE SENTIMENT IN
FAVOR OF RUSSIA TLECHL VERY
APPREHENSIVE ABOUT THE
PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT IN
KIEV AND FOLKS WHO ARE
SUPPORTING WHAT IS CLEARLY
AN OF THE BEING SUPPORTED IF
NOT ORCHESTRATED BY THE
KREMLIN TO STIR UP UNREST TO
KEEP THE PRESSURE ON AS SU
SUR-- THE FOREIGN MINISTER
TRIES TO NEGOTIATE WITH JOHN
KERRY ABOUT THE FUTURE OF
UKRAINE WHAT THE GOVERNMENT
WILL LOOK LIKE GOING
FORWARD.
>> Woodruff: WE KNOW THE
RUSH ARNE GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALLY IS DENYING THIS.
THEY'RE SAYING THEY'RE NOT
RESPONSIBLE.
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING, THOUGH,
IN MOSCOW?
WHAT ARE YOU PICKING UP?
>> WELL, WHAT WE HEARD FROM
THE FOREIGN MINISTRY TOW WAS
A VERY CLEAR REITERATION OF
THEIR POSITION.
THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE
UKRAINE FEDERALLIZED.
ESSENTIALLY THE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT WEAKEN
SUBSTANTIALLY, THE REGONS
EMPOWERED IN A WAY THAT
MAKES THEM ALMOST AUTONOMOUS
WHAT THIS SUGGESTS IS THE
KREMLIN REALIZES IT DOESN'T
HAVE A PRO RUSSIA CANDIDATE
THAT CAN WIN IN THE MAY 25th
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS IN
UKRAINE.
RIGHT NOW THERE WAS A STRONG
PRO EUROPEAN SENTIMENT
COMING OFF MORE THAN THREE
MONTHS OF CIVIC UNREST IN
KIEV, IN THE OUSTING OF
FORMER PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH
SO, THE KREMLIN WHICH HAS
MANY SERIOUS INTERESTS IN
UKRAINE HAS ALWAYS LOOKED TO
HAVE A STRONG HAND OF
INFLUENCE OVER THE COUNTRY.
A THEY ARE SEEING IT DOESN'T
HAVE A CANDIDATE IT CAN
COUNT ON AS AN ALLY THAT CAN
WIN.
SO THE NEXT STEP SEEMS TO BE
A STRATEGY BY WHICH
ESSENTIALLY THE GOVERNMENT
IN KIEV WITHOUT BECOME VERY
WEAK.
THE REGION WAS BECOME MUCH
STRONGER.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT BY AN
EXING CRIMEA ONE OF THE SIDE
EFFECTS WAS THAT RUSSIA LOST
A MILLION AND A HALF OR MORE
PRO RUSSIA VOTERS FROM ANY
NATIONAL ELECTION IN
UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: YOU HAVE BEEN
MENTIONING THE SENTIMENT OF,
PRO RUSSIAN SENTIMENT IN
EASTERN UKRAINE.
IS IT KNOWN HOW DEEP THAT
WAS, HOW WIDE SPREAD IT IS?
I MEAN ARE THERE SURVEYS?
IS THERE ANY KIND OF AN
AUTHORITATIVE SENSE IN THAT.
>> NO, THERE REALLY ISN'T.
WE UNDERSTAND THAT THERE ARE
QUITE A LARGE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE WHO IDENTIFY
THEMSELVES AS ETHNIC
RUSSIANS, RUSSIANS THAT
PREDOMINANT LANGUAGE IN THE
EAST OF UKRAINE.
AT THE SAME TIME UKRAINIANS
ARE PROUD OF THEIR COUNTRY.
AND WE FIND THAT THERE ARE
MANY PEOPLE AS WE INTERVIEW
THEM ON THE STREETS WHO
WOULD PREFER TO SEE UKRAINE
AS AN INDEPENDENT COUNTRY.
WE KNOW THEY ARE A POWERFUL
BUSINESSMAN, BUSINESS
INTERESTS INCLUDING THE
RICHEST MACHINE IN UKRAINE,
WHO SAID THAT UKRAINE SHOULD
REMAIN A STRONG AND
INDEPENDENT COUNTRY THAT
THIS IS IMPORTANT.
HIS BASE OF OPERATIONS IN
THE EAST OF UKRAINE.
SO THERE REALLY IS A
DIVISION OF OPINION, MUCH
DIFFERENT THAN THE SITUATION
ON THE CRIMEAN PENINSULA
WHERE PUBLIC OPINION WAS
OVERWHELMINGLY IN SUPPORT OF
RUSSIA, IN SUPPORT OF
BECOMING A PART OF THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
HERE WE THINK IT WOULD BE A
MUCH DIFFERENT SITUATION ON
THE GROUND IF THEY WERE TO
HOLD THE KIND OF PUBLIC
REFERENDUM THAT SOME OF
THESE DEMONSTRATORS ARE
DEMANDING.
IT'S NOT CLEAR IT WOULD BE
THE ABSOLUTE OVERWHELMING
SUPPORT IN FAVOR OF MOVING
AWAY FROM UKRAINE TOWARD
RUSSIA THAT WE SAW IN
CRIMEA.
>> FINALLY, DAVID, WHAT IS
KNOWN ABOUT HOW MANY RUSSIAN
TROOPS ARE MASSED ON THE
BORDER THERE OF UKRAINE?
>> WELL, THIS IS AN
INTERESTING QUESTION.
THE PENTAGON HAS PUT OUT
NUMBERS IN THE TENS OF
THOUSANDS.
INTELLIGENCE REPORTS SHOWING
THAT MAYBE 30 TO 40,000
TROOPS HAVE AMASSED ON THE
BORDER.
REPORTERS WHO HAVE BEEN ON
THE GROUND THERE INCLUDING
MY COLLEAGUES HAVEN'T SEEN
THAT BIG A PRESENCE.
THEY HAVE SEEN SOME
EQUIPMENT.
THEY HAVE SEEN HELICOPTERS,
THERE IS NO QUESTION THAT
RUSSIA CAN MOVE A LARGE
NUMBER OF TROOPS QUITE
QUICKLY INTO THE WESTERN
REGION OF RUSSIA
ACROSS-THE-BOARD OR INTO
UKRAINE IF 2 CHOOSE TO DO
THAT.
ONE THING WE LEARNED IS THIS
IS A NEW RUSSIAN MILITARY,
ESPECIALLY THE SPECIAL
FORCES, THE MORE ELITE UNITS
HAVE BEEN UPGRADED
SUBSTANTIALLY.
THEY'VE GOT NEW EQUIP, NEW
TRAINING, THEY'RE POSITIONED
TO DO QUITE A RAPID
MOBILIZATION IF NECESSARY.
WHAT WE THINK THE WEST IS
MOST CONCERNED ABOUT IS IF
WOULD BE A DRAMATIC INVASION,
MOBILIZATION OF TANKS
ROLLING INTO THE EAST OF
UKRAINE, REALLY MAKING A
DEMONSTRATION OF RUSSIAN
FORCE THERE.
ANDE THERE HAVE BEEN
SOME REPORTS OF A PULLBACK,
SOME OF THE TROOPS THAT
PRESIDENT PUTIN SAID WERE
ENGAGED IN MILITARY
EXERCISES, THAT THEY HAVE
LEFT THE REGION, WE DO
BELIEVE THERE IS ENOUGH OF A
PRESENCE THERE THAT IF THEY
WANTED TO MOVE FORWARD THEY
COULD DO THAT RATHER QUICKLY
AND THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
CERTAINLY BEEN WARNING ABOUT
THAT.
>> AND THAT CERTAINLY WOULD
CHANGE THE PICTURE
DRAMATICALLY IF THEY DID.
DAVID, HERSZENHORN IN MOSCOW,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: TO AFGHANISTAN NOW,
WHERE, IN A BLOW TO THE TALIBAN,
A MAJORITY OF ELIGIBLE VOTERS
CAME OUT PUBLICLY OVER THE
WEEKEND TO CAST BALLOTS IN AN
HISTORIC ELECTION.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS.
>> Warner: BALLOTS BY THE
TRUCKLOAD WERE BROUGHT TO KABUL
FROM THE FAR REACHES OF
AFGHANISTAN, AS THE PAINSTAKING
PROCESS OF TABULATING THE
SAAY
EARNEST.
>> ( translated ): THE SENSITIVE
AND NON-SENSITIVE MATERIAL
INCLUDING THE RESULTS FROM
DISTRICTS OF ALMOST 15 PROVINCES
HAS BEEN DELIVERED TO THE CENTER
OF THE PROVINCES ACCORDING THE
SCHEDULE.
>> Warner: NEARLY 60% OF THE 12
MILLION ELIGIBLE VOTERS HEADED
TO THE POLLS AMID TIGHT
SECURITY.
LONG LINES FORMED ON A RAW,
RAINY DAY IN KABUL.
OUTGOING PRESIDENT HAMID KARZA
SPOKE  AFTER FILLING OUT HIS OWN
BALLOT.
>> ( translated ): I CAST MY
VOTE TODAY AS A CITIZEN OF THIS
COUNTRY AND I AM SO GLAD AND
PROUD THAT I HAVE VOTED TODAY.
I AM CERTAIN THAT TODAY'S EVENT
AND OUR PEOPLE'S PARTICIPATION
WILL TAKE AFGHANISTAN TOWARDS
STABILITY AND BETTER LIVES FOR
THE PEOPLE.
>> Warner: THE PACE OF DEADLY
TALIBAN STRIKES HAD ESCALATED
LEADING UP TO THE BALLOTING.
BUT SATURDAY SAW NO MAJOR
ATTACKS, AND THE HIGH TURNOUT
WAS ITS OWN MESSAGE, SAID
PROMINENT LAWMAKER SHUKRIA
BARAKZAI.
>> THAT WAS A FANTASTIC SLAP ON
THE FACE OF ENEMY OF AFGHANISTAN
AND EXACTLY A BIG PUNCH ON THE
FACE OF THOSE WHOM BELIEVED
AFGHANISTAN IS NOT READY FOR
DEMOCRACY.
>> Warner: THERE WERE THREE
FRONTRUNNERS ALL BIDDING TO
REPLACE PRESIDENT KARZAI, WHO
WAS TERM-LIMITED AFTER 12 YEARS.
HIS FAVORITE CANDIDATE IS
THOUGHT TO BE ZALMAY RASSOUL,
A 70-YEAR-OLD FORMER FOREIGN
MINISTER.
ASHRAF GHANI, A FORMER WORLD
BANK OFFICIAL AND FINANCE
MINISTER, GOT JUST 3% OF THE
VOTE IN 2009 AGAINST KARZAI.
HE SAID THIS ELECTION PRESENTED
A CHOICE FOR  THE TALIBAN, TOO:
>> THEY ARE GOING TO DEAL WITH A
GENUINELY ELECTED GOVERNMENT
THAT IS KEEN TO ESTABLISH ITS
LINKS WITH THE PUBLIC, THAT
REPRESENTS THE WILL OF THE
PUBLIC AND THEY NEED TO MAKE A
CHOICE; ARE THEY AFGHANS OR
AGENTS OF FOREIGNERS?
>> Warner: THE THIRD LEADING
CANDIDATE IS ONE-TIME KARZAI
ALLY DR. ABDULLAH ABDULLAH; HE
SERVED AS FOREIGN MINISTER AFTER
THE OUSTER OF THE TALIBAN.
>> ( translated ): TODAY'S EVENT
CAN BE THE BEGINNING OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS IN THE
HISTORY OF AFGHANISTAN AND ONE
STEP AHEAD TOWARD A BETTER
FUTURE.
>> Warner: ABDULLAH GOT NEARLY
30% AGAINST KARZAI IN 2009 IN AN
ELECTION MARRED BY FRAUD,
BALLOT-BOX STUFFING AND OFFICIAL
CORRUPTION; BY SOME ACCOUNTS,
MORE THAN A MILLION OF THE 4.5
MILLION VOTES CAST WERE DEEMED
FRAUDULENT.
AT A DRAMATIC GATHERING OF HIS
SUPPORTERS IN NOVEMBER THAT
YEAR, ABDULLAH WITHDREW FROM THE
RUN-OFF AGAINST KARZAI, SAYING
THE FIX WAS IN.
NOW  SOME EARLY UNOFFICIAL
ESTIMATES FROM THIS ELECTION
SHOW ABDULLAH WITH A LEAD.
OTHERS SHOW GHANI AHEAD.
SO FAR, THERE AREN'T REPORTS OF
THE SORT-OF BRAZEN FRAUD THAT
MARRED 2009'S VOTE, THOUGH ALL
THREE LEADING CAMPAIGNS HAVE
LEVELED SOME CHARGES OF
IMPROPRIETIES.
IN WASHINGTON TODAY, WHITE HOUSE
SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY INSISTED
THE U.S. DOESN'T HAVE A
FAVORITE.
>> WE DON'T HAVE A PREFERRED
CANDIDATE BECAUSE THE FUTURE OF
AFGHANISTAN IS UP TO THE AFGHANS
TO DECIDE.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO A PRODUCTIVE
RELATIONSHIP WITH PRESIDENT
KARZAI'S SUCCESSOR, WHOMEVER
THAT MAY BE.
>> Warner: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S RELATIONS WITH
KARZAI, ROCKY AT BEST, TOOK
ANOTHER DIVE OVER HIS REFUSAL TO
SIGN A BILATERAL SECURITY
AGREEMENT.
IT WOULD LET SOME AMERICAN AND
INTERNATIONAL TROOPS REMAIN IN
AFGHANISTAN BEYOND THE END OF
THIS YEAR, TO PURSUE AL-QAEDA
AND TRAIN AFGHAN FORCES.
ALL THREE OF KARZAI'S POTENTIAL
SUCCESORS HAVE SAID THEY WOULD
SIGN THE DEAL.
NOW, ALL SIDES MUST WAIT.
PRELIMINARY RESULTS ARE DUE IN
THREE WEEKS, AND A FINAL
OFFICIAL COUNT ON MAY 14.
IF NO ONE GETS 50%, THERE'S A
RUNOFF SCHEDULED FOR LATE MAY.
>> Woodruff: BEFORE LEAVING ON
ASSIGNMENT, GWEN SAT DOWN WITH
MARGARET EARLIER TODAY FOR MORE
ON THE ELECTION.
>> MARGARET, LOOKING AT THE
LINES OF PEOPLE LINED UP TO
VOTE IT'S AMAZING THE
TURNOUT.
WHY, IS WHY SO MANY PEOPLE.
>> WELL, A COUPLE OF
THEORIES ABOUT THIS ONE IS
SECURITY FORCES ACTUALLY DID
A VERY GOOD JOB, 350,000
STRONG, MUCH BETTER THAN
THEY DID IN 2009.
AND THOUGH THE U.S. HELPED
WITH LOGISTICS AND
INTELLIGENCE, THEY WERE
STANDING BY TO COME IN IN
EMERGENCIES.
REALLY THE TLB DIDN'T MOUNT
ANY MAJOR TACKS.
THE OTHER REASON I'VE HEARD
FROM PEOPLE WHO KNOW
AFGHANISTAN WELL IS THAT
THIS TIME VOTERS FELT IT
ACTUALLY MATTERED.
I COVERED THE O 9EE ELECTION,
EVEN THOUGH KARZAI THOUGHT
THE U.S. WAS OUT TO KILL HIM
AND GET HIM OUT OF OFFICE,
MOST AFGHANS THOUGHT THE FIX
WAS IN FOR KARZAI, THAT THE
U.S. HAD ALREADY ANNOINTED
HIM.
AND SO THERE WASN'T THE SAME,
WHAT WAS APPARENTLY REALLY A
KIND OF ENTHUSIASM FOR
GETTING OUT THERE AND VOTING
AND THINK A VOTE MAT ARED.
>> WE KNOW THERE WERE LOTS
OF ALLEGATIONS OF WIDE
SPREAD FRAUD LAST TIME.
IT'S NEVER TOO SOON TO SAY
BUT HAS THERE BEEN ANY
INDICATIONS OF THAT SO FAR.
>> IT IS EARLY TO SAY AND
U.S. OFFICIALS ARE ACTUALLY
REALLY CAUTIOUS ABOUT THIS,
THEY SAY.
VOTE WENT WELL, TURNOUT WAS
GREAT.
EVEN THOUGH, YOU KNOW,
HEAVIER IN THE CITIES THAN
SOME RURAL TALIBAN
CONTROLLED AREAS.
BUT THIS FRAUD PROCESS OF
THE COMPLAINTS AND THE
INVESTIGATIONS ARE VERY
DICEY PERIOD.
SO FAR THERE HAVEN'T BEEN
COMPLAINTS OF LIKE BLANKET
FRAUD, THE KIND OF THING ARE
ABDULLAH ABDULLAH SAID LAST
TIME, THIS WHOLE THING IS
ILLEGAL, I REMEMBER HIM
SAYING TO ME.
AND THAT IS WHY HE WASN'T
GOING TO RUN OFF.
BUT EVERY CANDIDATE SAYS
THEY'VE GOT CELL PHONE
VIDEOS OF POLICEMAN STUFFING
BALLOT BOXES OR TELLING
PEOPLE WHO TO VOTE FOR.
AND SO THAT PROCESS, REALLY,
THE COMPLAINT STARTED TODAY
AND THERE'S QUITE A TIME FOR
THAT TO BE INVESTIGATED.
SO YOU HAVE TO TAKE THE
TOTAL VOTE WHICH 17 MILLION
PEOPLE TURNING OUT, HOW MANY
OF THOSE WILL GET THROWN
OUT.
>> Ifill: THERE ARE SO MANY
QUESTIONS OR THERE HAVE BEEN
IN THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS
ABOUT HAMID KARZAI AND OUR
FRACTURED, FRACTIOUS
RELATIONSHIP WITH HIM.
ARE EITHER OF THESE TWO
LIKELY RUNOFF CANDIDATES,
ARE THEY LIKELY TO HAVE A
DIFFERENT RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE U.S.?
>> WELL, THE UNITED STATES
CERTAINLY HOPES SO.
AT LEAST LESS MERCURIAL, AND
JUST SORT OF A MORE STABLE
RELATIONSHIP.
BUT I HAVE TO SAY THAT EVEN
PEOPLE IN THE ADMINISTRATION
WHO DON'T CARE FOR HAMID
KARZAI AND CAN HARDLY WADE
TO HAVE HIM GONE DO GIVE
LIMB CREDIT FOR APPARENTLY
NOT MEDDLING HEAVILY I
ELECTION.
DE HAVE A FAVORITE CANDIDATE,
AS WE SAID.
BUT HE DID NOT-- IF THERE
WASN'T MASSIVE, MASSIVE
FRAUD IT'S BECAUSE KARZAI
DIDN'T FEEL THE NEED TO DO
IT LAST TIME HE THOUGHT DIC
HOLBROOK WHO WAS RUNNING
POLICY AND THE U.S. WERE OUT
TO GET HIM THIS TIME HE IS
COMFORTABLE WITH THE THREE
FRONT-RUNNERS, I'M TOLD.
SO HE DIDN'T HAVE A HUGE
INCENTIVE TO DO IT AND HE
HAS TOLD A LOT OF PEOPLE,
AND AGAIN WE DON'T KNOW
WHETHER TO BELIEVE THIS,
THAT HE SEES IT AS PART OF
HIS LEGACY HIS FIRST
PEACEFUL EVER TRANSITION OF
POWER.
SO I THINK THAT YES, THE
U.S. IS LOOKING FORWARD TO
KARZAI'S SUCCESS, ALSO
PLEASANTLY SURPRISED THAT
THERE HAS BEEN --
>> AND THE OTHER THING
KARZAI HAS DONE IS
REPEATEDLY REFUSED TO SIGN
THE SECURITY AGREEMENT WHICH
EVERYBODY IS KIND OF WAITING
FOR.
AND U.S. OFFICIALS SAID
SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE BEFORE
THIS ELECTION SO NOW THERE
HAS BEEN A ELECTION, DO YOU
ASSUME THERE IS GOING TO BE
A NEW LEADER, WHAT ARE THE
PROSPECTS FOR THE BILATERAL
SECURITY AGREEMENT?
>> WELL, EVERY SINGLE ONE OF
THE 12 OR 13 CANDIDATES
INDICATED THEY WOULD SIGN IT
THEY THOUGHT IT WAS
ESSENTIAL FOR AFGHAN
SECURITY TO HAVE THIS SORT
OF RESIDUAL U.S. FORCE.
AND ALSO, FRANKLY, FOR A LOT
OF THE ECONOMIC AID WHICH IF
YOU DON'T HAVE ANY WESTERN
FORCES THERE, A LOT OF
ORGANIZATIONS AND A LOT OF
MONEY WILL BE PULLED OUT OF
CIVILIAN PROJECTS.
SO THEY TAKE ALL THESE
CANDIDATES, PARTICULARLY THE
TOP THREE, THE APPARENT TOP
THREE FINISHERS THAT SAID
THEY HAVE LEARNED THE HARD
WAY THAT IN AFGHANISTAN
NOTHING IS EVER SURE UNTIL
IT'S DONE.
AND SOMETIMES NOT EVEN THEN.
>> NOW DOES THIS RESTORE
OR-- THE U.S. FAITH IN THE
AFGHAN TRANSITION OR DOES
THE U.S. STEP FARTHER AND
FARTHER BACK AS THESE
ELECTIONS PLAY OUT?
>> WELL, THE U.S. THIS TIME
INSTEAD OF LOOKING LIKE THEY
WERE FAVOURING ANYONE REALLY
JUST KEPT SAYING LET'S HAVE
THE PROCESS BE FAIR.
BECAUSE THE U.S. INTEREST IS
THAT THIS IS CREDIBLE BY THE
AFGHAN PEOPLE.
AND YOU KNOW, IT'S A VERY
FRACTIOUS SOCIETY, THAT ALL
THESE DIFFERENT ETHNIC
GROUPS THERE IS A LOT OF
SECTARIANISM AND DISTRUST OF
ONE ETHNIC GROUP WANTING TO
DOMINATE OVER ANOTHER.
SO THAT'S WHERE THE U.S.
EFFORT HAS BEEN
CONCENTRATED.
IF YOU GET TO A SITUATION
WHERE THERE ARE, SAY, TWO
TOP FINISHERS AND IT'S VERY,
VERY CLOSE, AND THEN THERE
IS A QUESTION DO YOU WANT TO
DO A RUNOFF OR DO TWO
LEADERS WANT TO DO A DEAL, I
THINK THE UNITED STATES AND
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
MAY BE OF ASSISTANCE IN THAT
SITUATION IN TERMS OF
HELPING THEM SIGNIFICANT OUT
HOW TO RESOLVE IT SO THEY
HAVE A WHOLE PROCESS TO DO
IT AND THEY CAN GO TO A
RUNOFF.
AND KARZAI MAY ALSO PLAY A
ROLE.
THAT IS SO SPECULATIVE NOW,
IT REALLY DEPENDS, YOU KNOW,
IF IT'S REALLY CLOSE YOU CAN
IMAGINE NEITHER GHANI NOR
ABDULLAH YOU BECOME
PRESIDENT, I'LL BE PRIME
MINISTER, YOU KNOW, SO IT'S
LIKE POLITICS HERE.
>> YEAH, EXACTLY.
>> IT IS THEIR INCENTIVE TO
DO A DEAL OR NOT.
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANY SENSE
OF WHEN WE HAVE A VOTE COUNT
COMPLETE?
>>.
>> Warner: SURE, THERE IS A
PRELIMINARY VOTE COUNT WHICH
AS I SAID AT THE ENOF THE
PIECE IS APRIL 24th.
BUT THAT'S BEFORE YOU
DISCOUNT ALL THE FRAUD AND
ALLEGATION INVESTIGATION.
THEN YOU GET A LATER VOTE
COUNT, THAT'S NOT UNTIL
SOMETHING LIKE MAY 14TH OR
15th.
SO THERE IS A LOT OF TIME
HERE, A LOT OF POTENTIAL
INSTABILITY, AND EVEN THEN
THERE MIGHT NOT BE A
RESOLUTION BECAUSE YOU MIGHT
HAVE TO HAVE A RUNOFF, ALL
THAT TIME TALIBAN IS ACTIVE
AND KARZAI IS PRESIDENT.
>> Ifill: AFGHANISTAN THE
STORY THAT NEVER QUITE ENDS.
>> Warner: NEVER QUITE ENDS.
>> Ifill: MARGARET WARNER,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> PLEASURE, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS ARE LIKELY TO SPEND
MUCH OF THIS MIDTERM ELECTION
YEAR DEBATING THE VIRTUES OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, PARTICULARLY
WHEN IT COMES TO ADDRESSING
INCOME INEQUALITY
BUT IT TURNS OUT THAT ONE BIG
IDEA FOR CHANGING HOW THE
GOVERNMENT PROVIDES FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE MAY HAVE APPEAL TO
SOME ON THE LEFT AND THE RIGHT.
IT'S A MINIMUM LEVEL OF
GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS KNOWN AS
GUARANTEED BASIC INCOME.
AND WHILE IT'S NOT EXACTLY IN
THE MAINSTREAM YET, THE IDEA IS
GAINING TRACTION, AS OUR
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN FOUND OUT.
PART OF HIS ONGOING REPORTING:
"MAKING SENSE OF FINANCIAL
NEWS."
>> Reporter: IN SWITZERLAND LAST
FALL, ACTIVISTS DUMPED EIGHT
MILLION COINS OUTSIDE
PARLIAMENT, ONE FOR EACH SWISS
CITIZEN.
THEIR CAUSE?
A GUARANTEE THAT EVERY CITIZEN
GET A YEARLY INCOME OF 30,000
SWISS FRANCS, ABOUT $34,000,
WHETHER THEY WORK OR NOT, SAYS
MOVEMENT LEADER ENNO SCHMIDT.
>> IT'S A CIVIL RIGHT THAT YOUR
EXISTENCE IS NOT NEGOTIABLE BY
THE MARKET.
>> Reporter: SO THIS IS FOR
EVERYBODY?
>> IT'S FOR EVERYBODY.
RICH PEOPLE, POOR PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: SCHMIDT AND FRIENDS
GATHERED 126,000 SIGNATURES,
MORE THAN ENOUGH TO TRIGGER A
REFERENDUM WHICH, IF ADOPTED,
WOULD BECOME PART OF THE SWISS
CONSTITUTION.
RADICAL, YOU SAY?
WELL, IT TURNS OUT THE IDEA HAS
SUPPORTERS HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES AS WELL, BOTH LEFT AND
RIGHT.
IT WAS A LONG-AGO FAVORITE OF
CONSERVATIVE GURU MILTON
FRIEDMAN AND REMAINS APPEALING
TO LIBERTARIAN CHARLES MURRAY,
WHO PROP A MINIMUM INCOME IN
A BOOK CALLED "IN OUR HANDS":
SAY, $12,000 PER PERSON PER YEAR
IN TODAY'S DOLLARS, TAX FREE UP
TO A TOTAL OF ABOUT $30,000
>> YOU HAVE A SYSTEM WHEREBY
EVERY MONTH, A CHECK GOES INTO
AN ELECTRONIC BANK ACCOUNT FOR
EVERYBODY OVER THE AGE OF 21,
THAT THEY CAN USE AS THEY SEE
FIT.
THEY CAN GET TOGETHER WITH OTHER
PEOPLE AND THEN COMBINE THEIR
RESOURCES.
BUT THEY LIVE THEIR OWN LIVES.
WE PUT THEIR LIVES BACK IN THEIR
HANDS.
>> Reporter: AND, ENTHUSES
VERONIQUE DE RUGY OF GEORGE
MASON UNIVERSITY'S CONSERVATIVE
MERCATUS CENTER, WE GET THEIR
LIVES OUT OF THE HANDS OF
GOVERNMENT BUREAUCRATS.
>> THE CURRENT SYSTEM IS NOT
SERVING POOR PEOPLE WELL.
THE APPEAL OF THE GUARANTEED
MINIMUM INCOME IS IT DOESN'T
DICTATE THAT PEOPLE WHO GETS
THIS MONEY HOW TO SPEND IT, AND
T Y, BETTER
THAN ANYONE ELSE IN WASHINGTON,
KNOW WHAT THEY NEED.
>> Reporter: ON THE LEFT,
ANTHROPOLOGIST AND ACTIVIST
DAVID GRAEBER, A KEY COG IN THE
OCCUPY MOVEMENT, IS SIMILARLY
DISENCHANTED WITH SOCIAL WELFARE
BUREAUCRATS.
>> I THINK THS A PERFECT
LEFT CRITIQUE OF BUREAUCRACY, WE
EMPLOY THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE TO
MAKE US FEEL BAD ABOUT
OURSELVES, JUST GET RID OF THOSE
PEOPLE, JUST GIVE EVERYBODY SOME
MONEY AND I THINK EVERYONE WILL
BE MUCH BETTER OFF.
>> Reporter: NOW TO BE CLEAR,
FOLKS ON THE RIGHT BELIEVE A
GUARANTEED MINIMUM INCOME ONLY
WORKS IF IT WHOLLY REPLACES
CURRENT PROGRAMS.
>> THERE'S NO MORE FOOD STAMPS,
THERE'S NO MORE MEDICAID, YOU
JUST GO DOWN THE WHOLE LIST.
NONE OF THAT'S LEFT.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO A SYSTEM
WHEREBY THAT BUREAUCRACY
DOWNTOWN IS CUTTING A CHECK, BUT
THE HUMAN NEEDS IN THE COMMUNITY
HAVE TO BE DEALT WITH.
THOSE WHO ARE IN THE BEST
POSITION TO DO IT ARE NOT
BUREAUCRATS BUT PEOPLE WHO KNOW
THE PERSON THAT EXPERIENCES
THOSE HUMAN NEEDS.
>> Reporter: SUPRISINGLY,
PERHAPS, THE LEFT'S GRAEBER
POINTS TO EVIDENCE IN SUPPORT OF
THE RIGHT'S MURRAY.
>> IN NAMIBIA, THEY DID AN
EXPERIMENT WHERE THEY USED TO
GIVE AID, AND INSTEAD THEY JUST
GAVE EVERYBODY A FLAT SUM OF
MONEY, AND THE FIRST THING
PEOPLE DID WAS THEY GOTETHER, T,
PUT IT IN A COMMON POOL, AND
THAT CREATED A DEMOCRATIC
SYSTEM, AND THEY DECIDED WHAT
THEY REALLY NEEDED WAS A POST
OFFICE, I THINK, WHICH IS
SOMETHING NO AID GROUP WOULD
EVER HAVE THOUGHT OF.
THESE PEOPLE ACTUALLY DO KNOW
THEIR COMMUNAL NEEDS BETTER THAN
SOMEBODY FROM OUTSIDE.
SO IT WOULD AT LEAST GIVE US THE
OPPORTUNITY TO GET TOGETHER, AND
CREATE COMMON PROJECTS IN A WAY
THAT WE HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO DO
BEFORE.
>> Reporter: BUT WHILE DAVID
GRAEBER DISDAINS GOVERNMENT
BUREAUCRACIES, HE'S AGAINST
WIPING OUT ALL WELFARE PROGRAMS.
>> THE AMOUNTS OF MONEY THAT
THEY'RE NOW TALKING ABOUT GIVING
PEOPLE AREN'T ENOUGH TO TAKE
CARE OF THINGS LIKE HEALTHCARE,
HOUSING, BUT I THINK IF YOU
GUARANTEE THOSE SORT OF BASIC
NEEDS, YOU COULD GET RID OF
ALMOST ALL THE PROGRAMS ON TOP
OF THAT.
>> Reporter: RIGHT-WING
ECONOMIST DEIRDRE MCCLOSKEY, WHO
CALLS HERSELF A "BLEEDING-HEART
LIBERTARIAN," HAS ALSO SUPPORTED
A GUARANTEED MINIMUM INCOME FOR
YEARS.
>> Reporter: BUT WOULD YOU
ACCEPT A MINIMUM INCOME WITH
SOME OF THE SOCIAL WELFARE
PROGRAMS CONTINUING TO BE IN
PLACE?
>> YES, BECAUSE I THINK THE
OTHER ONES THEN WOULD ATROPHY.
I THINK THEY WOULD GO AWAY.
>> Reporter: McCLOSKEY IS FAMOUS
FOR HER WORK, AS DON MCCLOSKEY,
ON THE RHETORIC AND HISTORY OF
ECONOMICS.
SHE WROTE SEVERAL CRITIQUES OF
THE DISCIPLINE FROM A FEMINIST
PERSPECTIVE, AFTER SHE HERSELF
CHANGED GENDERS.
YOU WENT THROUGH A MAJOR LIFE
TRANSFORMATION ALMOST 20 YEARS
AGO.
>> I DID.
>> Reporter: HAS IT CHANGED YOUR
POINT OF VIEW WITH REGARD TO ANY
OF THIS?
>> I SOMETIMES SAY THAT I'M A
MOTHERLY LIBERTARIAN, AND THAT
WOULDN'T WORK TOO WELL IF I WAS
STILL A GUY.
>> Reporter: NOW WE SHOULDN'T
FORGET A LAST KEY ARGUMENT FROM
THE LEFT: A MINIMUM INCOME AS A
WAY TO COMBAT RISING INCOME
INEQUALITY.
THAT'S AN ISSUE EVEN IN
RELATIVELY EQUAL SWITZERLAND,
SAYS THE HARVARD BUSINESS
SCHOOL'S FELIX OBERHOLZERGEE, A
SWISS NATIVE WHO CAN VOTE IN THE
UPCOMING REFERENDUM.
>> EUROPEANS ARE NOT USED TO THE
KINDS OF INEQUALITIES THAT THE
MODERN GLOBAL ECONOMY TENDS TO
PRODUCE.
THEY RESPOND MORE HARSHLY
AGAINST EVEN SMALL CHANGES IN
TRENDS, BECAUSE YOU GROW UP IN A
SOCIETY WHERE EVERYBODY IS MORE
EQUAL THAN WE WOULD BE USED TO
IN THE AMERICAN CONTEXT.
>> Reporter: OKAY, THERE'S
SYMPATHY IN SWITZERLAND FOR A
GUARANTEED INCOME, AND IN THE US
FROM BOTH THE RIGHT AND THE
LEFT.
WHAT'S NOT TO LIKE?
WELL FOR ONE THISA
LIBERAL ECONOMIST BARBARA
BERGMANN, AT ANY PLAUSIBLE
MINIMUM INCOME.
>> YOU'RE STILL GOING TO HAVE A
LOT OF PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
TROUBLE, BECAUSE THEY HAVE
SPECIAL NEEDS.
>> Reporter: YES, SAYS
CONSERVATIVE BLOGGER MEGAN
MCCARDLE: HANDOUTS INSTEAD OF
PROGRAMS MAY BE OKAY, BUT THE
SAME FOR EVERYONE?
>> I'M NOT SURE THAT I WOULD
SUPPORT, SAY, TAKING SOMEONE WHO
IS SEVERELY DISABLED AND TELLING
THEM, "WELL, HERE'S $10,000 A
YEAR, JUST LIKE THAT HEALTHY 20
YEAR OLD DOWN THE STREET, AND
YOU GET THE SAME AS HE DOES."
>> Reporter: BERGMANN WOULD
PREFER WE BEEF UP CURRENT
WELFARE PROGRAMS THAT TARGET
SPECIFIC NEEDS.
>> IF YOU GIVE OUT FAIRLY DECENT
SUMS TO PEOPLE, SOME OF THEM ARE
GOING TO MISSPEND.
THE SWEDES HAVE WORKED THIS OUT
VERY WELL AND PEOPLE DON'T FEEL
NEED THERE.
BECAUSE THE NEEDS, THE MOST
IMPORTANT NEEDS, ARE TAKEN CARE
OF DIRECTLY.
>> Reporter: MORE GENERALLY,
POINTS OUT CONSERVATIVE
MCCARDLE, SENDING CHECKS TO
EVERY AMERICAN WOULD COST
TRILLIONS.
BUT MOST PROBLEMATIC OF ALL,
PERHAPS: A GUARANTEED INCOME,
SHE SAYS, WOULD DISCOURAGE
EFFORT.
>> HAVING HALF OF THE
POPULATION, OR ANY SIGNIFICANT
FRACTION OF THE POPULATION SAY
THAT MY JOB IS JUST TO TAKE, AND
OTHER PEOPLE GO OUT AND MAKE
THAT MONEY, I THINK THAT IS
MORALLY PROBLEMATIC.
IF YOU CAN LIVE WITHOUT WORKING,
SOME PEOPLE WILL CHOOSE TO.
>> Reporter: TO THE LEFT'S DAVID
GRAEBER, HOWEVER, THIS IS
NONSENSE.
>> WE HAVE THIS IDEA THAT PEOPLE
ARE JUST LAZY, AND IF THEY'RE
GIVEN, YOU KNOW, A CERTAIN
AMOUNT OF MINIMAL INCOME THEY
JUST WON'T DO ANYTHING.
PROBABLY THERE'S A FEW PEOPLE
LIKE THAT, BUT THE VAST
MAJORITY, IT WILL FREE THEM TO
DO THE KIND OF WORK THAT THEY
THINK IS MEANINGFUL.
I ALWAYS TALK ABOUT PRISONS.
IT'S A GREAT EXAMPLE.
YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE PEOPLE WHO
ARE FED, THEY'RE CLOTHED,
THEY'VE GOT SHELTER, THEY COULD
JUST SIT AROUND ALL DAY, BUT
ACTUALLY THEY USE WORK AS A WAY
OF REWARDING THEM.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU DON'T BEHAVE
YOURSELF, WE WON'T LET YOU WORK
IN THE PRISON LAUNDRY.
I MEAN, PEOPLE WANT TO WORK.
NOBODY JUST WANTS TO SIT AROUND,
orte BORING.
WAGES FOR THOSE AT THE BOTTOM.
HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL'S
OBERHOLZERGEE.
>> THE PEOPLE WHO NOW FIND IT
VERY DIFFICULT TO GET THE SPOILS
FROM A MARKET ECONOMY WILL BE IN
A MUCH BETTER NEGOTIATION
POSITION, BECAUSE THEY CAN WALK
AWAY.
THEY CAN WALK AWAY WITHOUT
THINKING: WHAT AM I GOING TO EAT
TONIGHT?
>> Reporter: WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN IN SWITZERLAND?
IS SOME VERSION OF A MINIMUM
INCOME GOING TO BE ADOPTED, DO
YOU THINK?
>> I WILL BE VERY SURPRISED IF
THAT WAS THE CASE.
BUT THE DEBATE IS WHAT REALLY
MATTERS.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S JUST HOW
THE IDEA'S SWISS CHAMPION, ENNO
SCHMIDT, FEELS.
>> ONE HUNDRED TWENTY THOUSAND
PEOPLE SAY, YES, WE WANT TO
DISCUSS, AND THIS IS THE
INITIATIVE.
THEY DON'T SAY YES WE ARE FOR AN
UNCONDITIONAL BASIC INCOME, BUT
THAT'S AN INTERESTING IDEA,
LET'S DISCUSS IT.
>> Reporter: A DISCUSSION ONLY
JUST GETTING STARTED IN THE ALPS
AND CLOSER TO HOME.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN LEARN MORE
ABOUT THE GUARANTEED BASIC
INCOME, A VARIATION ON THAT
IDEA, AND WHY THE CONCEPT IS
CATCHING ON IN SWITZERLAND ON
OUR MAKING SENSE PAGE.
>> Woodruff: IN NORTHERN NEW
ENGLAND, RESEARCHERS ARE
INCREASINGLY WORRIED ABOUT
WHAT'S HAPPENING TO ONE OF IT'S
ICONIC ANIMALS, THE MOOSE.
THEIR NUMBERS ARE SIGNIFICANTLY
DECLINING, AND INVESTIGATORS ARE
TRYING TO FIND OUT WHETHER
WARMER WINTERS IN RECENT YEARS
MAY BE A BIG PART OF THE
PROBLEM.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS FROM
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
A WARNING, THE STORY CONTAINS
SOME GRAPHIC IMAGES.
>> WELL, WE GET TO THE TOWER,
WE GOT TO CHECK ON THOSE TWO
CALFS, WE'RE GETTING FUNNY
SIGNALS ON.
>> Srennivasan: SCIENTISTS
ARE BUNDLING UP AND PROWLING
THE FOREST IN PURSUIT OF THE
WILDEST LARGE ANIMAL IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE, THE MOOSE.
THEY'RE NOT WOODS
EXPLORATION BY BOTH FOOT AND
AIR IS PART OF A MASSIVE
RESEARCH EFFORT TO
UNDERSTAND WHY AMERICA'S
ICONIC WILD MOOSE ARE DYING
AT ALARMING RATES.
THE FIRST WEEK'S AFTER A
LONG WINNER ARE A CRITICAL
TIME FOR MOOSE.
AND HERE IN NEW HAMPSHIRE,
WILDLIFE BIOLOGISTS FROM THE
STATE FISH AND GAME
DEPARTMENT WANT TO FIND OUT
WHY IN THE LAST THREE YEARS
MOOSE POPULATIONS ARE DOWN
AS MUCH AS 40% IN SOME
REGIONS.
>> CHRISTINE RYANS OF THE
MOOSE PROJECT OF THE NEW
HAMPSHIRE GAMES AND FISH
DEPARTMENT.
>> APRIL IS THE MONTH WHEN
MOST OF THESE ANIMALS SEEM
TO JUST, THEY ARE COMPLETELY
DEPLETED AND THEY JUST START
DYING.
>> ACCORDING TO ERIC ORF,
NEW HAMPSHIRE FEEL BIOLOGIST
FOR THE WILDLIFE FEDERATION,
THE DEATHS HAVE BEEN
DRAMATIC ALL ALONG NORTH
AMERICA'S SOUTHERN MOOSE
RANGE.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT A
PRECIPITOUS DECLINE IN THE
LAST DECADE, YOU KNOW, THE
NEEDLE IS HEADED IN THE
WRONG DIRECTION, YOU KNOW,
ALL ACROSS, FROM NOVA SCOTIA,
NEW BRUNSWICK, MINNESOTA,
MICHIGAN, ALL ACROSS THE
SOUTHERN FRINGE OF THEIR
RANGE MOOSE NUMBERS ARE IN A
SIGNIFICANT DECLINE.
>> TO BETTER UNDERSTAND
WHAT'S BEHIND THE DECLINE,
NEW HAMPSHIRE AND MAINE HAVE
HIRED CAPTURE TEAMS WHOSE
JOB IT IS TO TRACK DOWN THE
MOOSE AND COLLAR THEM WITH A
RADIO TRANSMITTER.
>> WE NEED THE RADIO
FREQUENCY.
THAT'S 150, 37 --
>> PETE PEEKINS PROFESSOR OF
WILDLIFE ECOLOGY AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IS OVERSEEING THE PROJECT.
>> THE HELICOPTER BASICALLY
FINDS THE ANIMAL, ZOOMS DOWN
ON THAT ANIMAL, A NET IS PUT
OVER THE GUN, WE CALL IT NET
GUNG AND THE ANIMAL TRIPS UP
IN THE NET.
AND WHAT ARE CALLED MUGGERS
JUMP O HELICOPTER
AT LOW HEIGHTS.
AND THEY WRESTLE THE MOOSE
TO THE GROUND.
AND THE PEOPLE ACTUALLY HAVE
BEEN PROFESSIONAL RODEO
COWBOYS.
>> THE GOAL IS TO COLLAR AND
RELEASE 200 MOOSE BETWEEN
THIS WINTER AND NEXT.
>> THESE PEOPLE KNOW HOW TO
HANDLE ANIMALS, MOST
IMPORTANTLY IS HOW TO HUMANELY
HANDLE AN ANIMAL.
>> THE PROFESSOR'S TEAM
TRACKS THE COLLARED ANIMALS
FROM A FIRE TOWER IN
NORTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
EACH DAY DEVICES ARE ECK CHD
FOR SIGNS OF LIFE.
>> OF THE 40 MOOSE OUT THERE,
HOW MANY HAVE WE
SUCCESSFULLY MONITORED HERE
TODAY?
>> WE PICKED UP 37 OF THE
40.
THIS MORNING THERE IS ONE,
IF YOU WANT TO CHECK THAT
ONE, NICK.
>> WHEN MONITORS SIGNAL A
MOOSE DEATH, RESEARCHERS ARE
QUICK TO GET TO THE ANIMAL
BEFORE VITAL INFORMATION IS
DILUTED BY WEATHER AND TIME.
>> WHAT WE'RE GOING TRY AND
DO IS GET TO THEM MUCH
SOONER SO THAT WE HAVE
BETTER INFORMATION ON
EXACTLY WHY THEY'RE DYING.
>> THE MAIN THEORY NEW
HAMPSHIRE RESEARCHERS ARE
PURSUING IS THAT THE MASSIVE
MOOSE DIEOFF IS CAUSED
PRIMARILY BY A DEVASTATING
PAR SIGHT, THE WINTER
TICK-- PARASITE, THE WINTER
TICKS, ON THE DAY WE VISITED
THEY COLLECTED A DEAD CALF
COMPLETELY COVERED WITH
WINTER TICKS.
>> LITERALLY THIS IS THE
WALKING DEAD.
THE ANIMAL IS TOTALLY HE
MACE YATED.
AND THERE IS-- EMACIATED.
THERE IS NO WAY IT CAN
SURVIVE.
>>RE ENGORGED
ADULT TICK.
>> IT IS SUSPECTED THEY
LATCH ON IN FALL AND LIVE
OFF THE ANIMAL'S BLOOD FOR
MONTHS.
>> THEY ARE LITERALLY BEING
SUCKED DRY OF BLOOD.
THEY CAN'T CONSUME PROTEIN
TO REPLACE THE BLOOD LOSS,
THEIR ONLY CHOICE IS TO
CATABILIZE THEIR OWN TISSUES
AND THAT IS GOING TO BE
THEIR MUSCLES.
THE BEHIND LEGS ON A MOOSE
ARE SOME THE MOST POWERFUL
LEGS IN NORTH AMERICA.
AND THAT AN MA DOESN'T HAVE
IN AND THAT IS BECAUSE IT
CHEWED UP ITS OWN BODY TO
SURVIVE AS LONG AS IT.
>> AND YOU SEE THAT THAT IS
QUITE A BIT OF BLOOD.
>> THE WINTER TICK PARASITE
IS NOT NEW BUT ITS EXPLOSIVE
POPULATION GROWTH IS.
REACHING AN ANIMAL LIKE THIS
CALF SOON AFTER DEATH ALLOWS
SCIENTISTS TO DOCUMENT JUST
HOW MANY TICKS THERE WERE
BEFORE THEY DROP OFF IN
PURSUIT OF A LIVE HOST.
SCIENTISTS SUSPECT THAT
WARMER WINTER TEMPERATURES
ARE LEADING TO THE INCREASED
NUMBER OF PARASITES.
>> SHORTER WINTERS BOTH ON
THE SPRING AND FALL END PLAY
TO THE ADVANTAGE OF THE
TICK.
>> Srennivasan: THE NATIONAL
WILDLIFE FEDERATION ERIC, OF
IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH THE
STATE'S RESEARCH TEAM.
WHILE THIS WINTER WAS COLD,
HE WORRIED THE LONGER TERM
WARMING TREND AND THE RISE
IN TICK POPULATIONS ARE PART
OF A LARGER PROBLEM.
CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> THE NEW HAMPSHIRE WINNERS
ARE WARMED SOME 4 DEGREES
SINCE 1970.
SO THE WARMING OF THE WINTER
MEANS LESS SNOW, MEANS MORE
TICKS, MEANS FEWER MOOSE.
>> WHEN YOU DON'T HAVE SNOW
IN APRIL, YOU DON'T HAVE
SNOW IN NOVEMBER.
>> THE POPULATION EXPLODES.
>> Srennivasan: IT'S EASY TO
SEE WHY THE MOOSE IS SO
IMPORTANT IN NEW ENGLAND.
VIEWING MOOSE HAS BECOME AN
$11 MILLION TOURIST INDUSTRY
HERE.
>> IF YOU CAME TO NEW
HAMPSHIRE THIS SUMMER THE
MOST COMMON QUESTION WOULD
BE WHERE I CAN SEE A MOOSE.
AND LITERALLY EVERY TOURIST
WANTS TO SEE A MOOSE.
AND NEW HAMPSHIRE HAS A
GREAT REPUTATION FOR THAT.
THE AESTHETIC VALUE OF THIS
ANIMAL TO THE STATE IS-- IT
JUST CAN'T BE MEASURED.
>> AS WE KNOW OUR MOOSE
NUMBERS ARE DOWN SOME 40%.
>> Srennivasan: ERIC ORF IS
TAKE THE QUESTION OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE'S WARMING WINTERS
TO THE POLITICAL ARENA
ASKING BUSINESSES AND NEW
HAHIOUTDOOR INDUSTRY
TO SIGN A LETTER IN SUPPORT
OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY'S PROPOSAL
TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS.
EMISSIONS HE BELIEVES PLAY A
ROLE IN CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> IN MY LIFETIME AS A
BIOLOGIST I WITNESSED THE
DISAPPEARANCE OF WINTER HERE
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE SO WE
REALLY NEED TO CURB CARBON,
GET OFF THE CAR B'S, THE
WORLD OVER, AND WE NEED TO
PUT THIS EARTH ON A DIET OF
CAR B'S, CARBON AND BRING
BACK WINTER.
>> Srennivasan: FOR THEIR
PART STATE RESEARCHERS ARE
NOT YET POINTING THE FINGER
SOLELY AT CLIMATE CHANGE.
INSTEAD THEY SAY THE DIE-OFF
IS COMPLEX.
THEIR PLAN IS TO KEEP THEIR
FOCUS SQUARELY ON THE
BIOLOGY OF THE MOOSE.
AND THE BEST WAYS TO SUSTAIN
A HEALTHY POPULATION.
>> Brown: WRITER, NATURALIST,
ACTIVIST AND MUCH MORE, PETER
MATTHIESSEN LIVED A FULL LIFE
THAT THROUGH BOTH FICTION AND
NON FICTION, TOOK READERS TO FAR
FLUNG LOCALES IN SEARCH OF
STORIES AND ADVENTURE.
ED IN THE WEALTH IN 1927 IN NEW
NAVY, GRADUATED FROM YALE AND
THEN HELPED FOUND THE
INFLUENTIAL LITERARY JOURNAL,
"THE PARIS REVIEW."
IT EMERGED LATER THAT HE ALSO
WORKED FOR THE C.I.A. DURING HIS
TIME IN EUROPE.
HE WENT ON TO WRITE MORE THAN 30
BOOKS, BECOMING THE ONLY PERSON
TO WIN THE NATIONAL BOOK AWARD
IN BOTH FICTION AND NON-FICTION.
HI78
LEOPARD," TOLD OF A SPIRITUAL
JOURNEY INTO THE HIMALAYAN
MOUNTAINS.
IN 2008, HE WON THE AWARD FOR
"SHADOW COUNTRY," A
FICTIONALIZED ACCOUNT OF THE
REAL-LIFE MURDER OF A MAN NAMED
EDWARD WATSON BY HIS NEIGHBORS
IN THE EVERGLADES OF SOUTHWEST
FLORIDA.
WE TALKED ON THE NEWSHOUR THAT
YEAR, AND I ASKED WHAT HAD DRAWN
HIM TO THAT CHARACTER.
>> WELL, I WAS PROBABLY ABOUT
17.
I WAS TRAVELING UP THE SOUTHWEST
COAST OF FLORIDA WITH MY DAD.
HAD A BOAT.D FISHING.
AND HE SHOWED ME ON THE MARINE
CHART CHATHAM RIVER COMING DOWN
FROM THE EVERGLADES ON THE
SOUTHWEST COAST THERE.
AND HE SAID, "UP THAT RIVER,
THERE'S A HOUSE.
IT'S THE ONLY HOUSE IN THE
EVERGLADES.
AND THE MAN WHO OWNED IT, I
THINK HIS NAME WAS WATSON.
HE WAS KILLED BY HIS NEIGHBORS."
>> Brown: AND THAT STAYED WITH
YOU?
>> THAT STAYED WITH ME.
HE DIDN'T KNOW MUCH ELSE ABOUT
IT.
AND I, UNFORTUNATELY, DIDN'T GET
AROUND TO WRITING ABOUT IT FOR
ABOUT 50 YEARS.
>> Brown: BUT WHAT'S INTERESTING
TO ME IS YOU WRITE IN THE
AUTHOR'S NOTE, AND AS WE'VE JUST
SAID, THE PLOT IS ESSENTIALLY,
WE KNOW THE END OF THE STORY,
RIGHT?
HE'S KILLED.
SO THE QUESTION BECOMES, "WHY?"
>> THAT'S WHAT INTERESTED ME.
THE FACT THAT HE WAS KILLED IS
NOT PARTICULARLY INTERESTING.
HOW DID IT HAPPEN?
FISHERMEN AND FARMERS, PUMA
HUNTERS, OR PEOPLE, WHY WOULD
THEY KILL A NEIGHBOR?
THAT'S WHAT STRUCK ME.
AND THEN THE MORE I LOOKED INTO
IT, I DISCOVERED HE'D NOT ONLY
BEEN KILLED, BUT VERY VIOLENTLY
BY HIS NEIGHBORS, 33 BULLETS
WORTH.
SO THEY MEANT BUSINESS, AND YET
THEY LIKED HIM.
AND HIS WIVES LIKED HIM.
AND HIS CHILDREN LIKED HIM.
HE WAS APPARENTLY A FASCINATING
PERSON.
HE WAS A GREAT STORY-TELLER.
>> Brown: WELL, HE CLEARLY
FASCINATED YOU.
>> WELL, OF COURSE, HE GREW IN
MY OWN MIND, TOO.
AND I GAVE HIM, TO MAKE IT
EASIER, I THINK I GAVE HIM A
PRETTY GOOD SENSE OF HUMOR, OF A
KIND OF A DARK KIND,
NONETHELESS, BECAUSE HE WAS.
HOW DID THIS HAPPEN?
WHY WAS A MAN LIKE THIS KILLED
WHO WAS SO ABLE AND SO
CHARISMATIC, YOU KNOW?
>> BROWN: YOU KNOW, YOU WERE
FIRST AND MAYBE FOR A LONG TIME
BEST KNOWN FOR YOUR JOURNALISM
AND NON-FICTION AND TRAVEL
WRITING.
AND I READ THAT, AT THE AWARD
CEREMONY FOR THE NATIONAL BOOK
AWARD, YOU SAID, "I HAD A HARD
TIME PERSUADING PEOPLE THAT
FICTION IS MY NATURAL THING, NOT
NON-FICTION.
I WAS QUITE SURPRISED AND TAKEN
BY THAT.
THIS WAS SOMETHING YOU HAD TO
OVERCOME?
>> WELL, I DID.
I WROTE IN PARTICULAR A BOOK
CALLED "THE SNOW LEOPARD," WHICH
WON THE NATIONAL BOOK AWARD IN
THE NON-FICTION CATEGORY.
AND "THE SNOW LEOPARD" KIND OF
TENDED TO PUSH MY FICTION ASIDE.
AND I HAD A NOVEL THAT WAS
NOMINATED YEARS AGO, "AT PLAY IN
THE FIELDS OF THE LORD."
THAT WAS NOMINATED, BUT IT
WASN'T THE WINNER.
AND SOMEHOW I JUST WANTED TO SET
THAT RIGHT.
I JUST FELT FICTION REALLY IS
WHAT I WANT TO DO AND WHAT I
ALWAYS WANTED TO DO.
BUT I AM A JOURNALIST, TOO.
AND I WRITE ABOUT THE
ENVIRONMENT.
I WRITE ABOUT SOCIAL PROBLEMS.
I WORKED WITH CESAR CHAVEZ.
I'VE WORKED A LOT WITH THE
AMERICAN INDIAN PEOPLE.
AND THAT FASCINATES ME, AND I
WANT TO DO THAT, BUT MY HEART IS
REALLY IN THE FICTION.
>> Brown: PETER MATTHIESSEN
SUCCUMBED TO LEUKEMIA ON
SATURDAY, AT A HOSPITAL NEAR HIS
HOME ON LONG ISLAND.
HE WAS 86 YEARS OLD.
HIS NEW, AND LAST, NOVEL, "IN
PARADISE," WILL BE RELEASED
TOMORROW.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE U.S. WARNED RUSSIA AGAINST
ANY MOVES INTO EASTERN UKRAINE
AS PRO-RUSSIAN ACTIVISTS
PROCLAIMED INDEPENDENCE IN TWO
UKRAINIAN CITIES.
THE HOPE OF FINDING A MALAYSIAN
AIRLINER ROSE SLIGHTLY AFTER AN
AUSTRALIAN SHIP PICKED UP
POSSIBLE SIGNALS FROM THE
PLANE'S FLIGHT RECORDERS.
AND STOCKS TOOK ANOTHER BEATING.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS FELL
ALMOST 170 POINTS.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE CONTINUE OUR
SERIES ON LONG TERM CARE.
AS MORE AMERICANS ARE RELEASED
FROM HOSPITALS QUICKER, AND
SICKER, THAT PLACES NEW DEMANDS
ON THEIR FAMILY MEMBERS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE.
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.